::: {.content}
The Three Musketeers
====================

Use a team of three for version 1.0
-----------------------------------

For the first version of your app, start with only three people. That\'s
the magic number that will give you enough manpower yet allow you to
stay streamlined and agile. Start with a developer, a designer, and a
sweeper (someone who can roam between both worlds).

Now sure, it\'s a challenge to build an app with only a few people. But
if you\'ve got the right team, it\'s worth it. Talented people don\'t
need endless resources. They thrive on the challenge of working within
restraints and using their creativity to solve problems. Your lack of
manpower means you\'ll be forced to deal with tradeoffs earlier in the
process --- and that\'s alright. It will make you figure out your
priorities earlier rather than later. And you\'ll be able to communicate
without constantly having to worry about leaving people out of the loop.

If you can\'t build your version one with three people, then you either
need different people or need to slim down your initial version.
Remember, it\'s ok to keep your first version small and tight. You\'ll
quickly get to see if your idea has wings and, if it does, you\'ll have
a clean, simple base to build on.

::: {.quote}
### Metcalfe\'s Law and project teams

Keep the team as small as possible. Metcalfe\'s Law, that \"the value of
a communication system grows at approximately the square of the number
of users of the system,\" has a corollary when it comes to project
teams: The efficiency of the team is approximately the inverse of the
square of the number of members in the team. I\'m beginning to think
three people is optimal for a 1.0 product release\...Start out by
reducing the number of people you plan to add to the team, and then
reduce some more.

---Marc Hedlund, entrepreneur-in-residence at [O\'Reilly
Media](http://www.oreilly.com/)
:::

::: {.quote}
### Communication flow

Communication flows more easily on small teams than large teams. If
you\'re the only person on a project, communication is simple. The only
communication path is between you and the customer. As the number of
people on a project increases, however, so does the number of
communication paths. It doesn\'t increase additively, as the number of
people increases, it increases multiplicatively, proportional to the
square of the number of people.

---Steve McConnell, Chief Software Engineer at Construx Software
Builders Inc.\
(from [Less is More: Jumpstarting Productivity with Small
Teams](http://www.stevemcconnell.com/articles/art06.htm))
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch03) \| [Next essay](ch03_Embrace_Constraints.php)
:::
:::
