::: {.content}
Epicenter Design
================

Start from the core of the page and build outward
-------------------------------------------------

Epicenter design focuses on the true essence of the page --- the
epicenter --- and then builds outward. This means that, at the start,
you ignore the extremities: the navigation/tabs, footer, colors,
sidebar, logo, etc. Instead, you start at the epicenter and design the
most important piece of content first.

Whatever the page absolutely can\'t live without is the epicenter. For
example, if you\'re designing a page that displays a blog post, the blog
post itself is the epicenter. Not the categories in the sidebar, not the
header at the top, not the comment form at the bottom, but the actual
blog post unit. Without the blog post unit, the page isn\'t a blog post.

Only when that unit is complete would you begin to think about the
second most critical element on the page. Then after the second most
critical element, you\'d move on to the third, and so on. That\'s
epicenter design.

Epicenter design eschews the traditional \"let\'s build the frame then
drop the content in\" model. In that process, the page shape is built,
then the nav is included, then the marketing \"stuff\" is inserted, and
then, finally, the core functionality, the actual purpose of the page,
is poured in to whatever space remains. It\'s a backwards process that
takes what should be the top priority and saves it for the end.

Epicenter design flips that process and allows you to focus on what
really matters on day one. Essentials first, extras second. The result
is a more friendly, focused, usable screen for customers. Plus, it
allows you to start the dialogue between designer and developer right
away instead of waiting for all aspects of the page to fall in line
first.

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch09) \| [Next essay](ch09_Three_State_Solution.php)
:::
:::
