About 37signals
===============

What we do
----------

37signals is a small team that creates simple, focused software. Our
products help you collaborate and get organized. More than 350,000
people and small businesses use our web-apps to get things done. Jeremy
Wagstaff, of the Wall Street Journal, wrote, \"37signals products are
beautifully simple, elegant and intuitive tools that make an Outlook
screen look like the soft ware equivalent of a torture chamber.\" Our
apps never put you on the rack.

Our modus operandi
------------------

We believe software is too complex. Too many features, too many buttons,
too much to learn. Our products do less than the competition ---
intentionally. We build products that work smarter, feel better, allow
you to do things your way, and are easier to use.

Our products
------------

As of the publishing date of this book, we have five commercial products
and one open source web application framework.

[Basecamp](http://basecamphq.com) turns project management on its head.
Instead of Gantt charts, fancy graphs, and stats-heavy spreadsheets,
Basecamp offers message boards, to-do lists, simple scheduling,
collaborative writing, and file sharing. So far, hundreds of thousands
agree it\'s a better way. Farhad Manjoo of Salon.com said \"Basecamp
represents the future of software on the Web.\"

[Campfire](http://campfirenow.com) brings simple group chat to the
business setting. Businesses in the know understand how valuable
real-time persistent group chat can be. Conventional instant messaging
is great for quick 1-on-1 chats, but it\'s miserable for 3 or more
people at once. Campfire solves that problem and plenty more.

[Backpack](http://backpackit.com) is the alternative to those confusing,
complex, \"orga nize your life in 25 simple steps\" personal information
managers. Backpack\'s simple take on pages, notes, to-dos, and
cellphone/ email-based reminders is a novel idea in a product category
that suffers from status-quo-itis. Thomas Weber of the Wall Street
Journal said it\'s the best product in its class and David Pogue of the
New York Times called it a \"very cool\" organization tool.

[Writeboard](http://www.writeboard.com) lets you write, share, revise,
and compare text solo or with others. It\'s the refreshing alternative
to bloated word processors that are overkill for 95% of what you write.
John Gruber of Daring Fireball said, \"Writeboard might be the clearest,
simplest web application I\'ve ever seen.\" Web-guru Jeffrey Zeldman
said, \"The brilliant minds at 37signals have done it again.\"

[Ta-da List](http://tadalist.com) keeps all your to-do lists together
and organized online. Keep the lists to yourself or share them with
others for easy collaboration. There\'s no easier way to get things
done. Over 100,000 lists with nearly 1,000,000 items have been created
so far.

[Ruby on Rails](http://www.rubyonrails.org), for developers, is a
full-stack, open-source web framework in Ruby for writing real-world
applications quickly and easily. Rails takes care of the busy work so
you can focus on your idea. Nathan Torkington of the O\'Reilly publish
ing empire said \"Ruby on Rails is astounding. Using it is like watching
a kung-fu movie, where a dozen bad-ass frameworks prepare to beat up the
little newcomer only to be handed their asses in a variety of
imaginative ways.\" Gotta love that quote.

You can find out more about our products and our company on our web site
at [www.37signals.com](http://www.37signals.com).
