::: {.content}
There\'s Nothing Functional about a Functional Spec
===================================================

Don\'t write a functional specifications document
-------------------------------------------------

These blueprint docs usually wind up having almost nothing to do with
the finished product. Here\'s why:

Functional specs are fantasies
------------------------------

They don\'t reflect reality. An app is not real until builders are
building it, designers are designing it, and people are using it.
Functional specs are just words on paper.

Functional specs are about appeasement
--------------------------------------

They\'re about making everyone feel involved and happy which, while warm
and fuzzy, isn\'t all that helpful. They\'re never about making tough
choices and exposing costs, things that need to happen to build a great
app.

Functional specs only lead to an illusion of agreement
------------------------------------------------------

A bunch of people agreeing on paragraphs of text isn\'t a true
agreement. Everyone may be reading the same thing but they\'re thinking
something different. This inevitably comes out later on: \"Wait, that\'s
not what I had in mind.\" \"Huh? That\'s not how we described it.\"
\"Yes it was and we all agreed on it --- you even signed off on it.\"
You know the drill.

Functional specs force you to make the most important decisions when you have the least information
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You know the least about something when you begin to build it. The more
you build it, the more you use it, the more you know it. That\'s when
you should be making decisions --- when you have more information, not
less.

Functional specs lead to feature overload
-----------------------------------------

There\'s no pushback during spec phase. There\'s no cost to writing
something down and adding another bullet point. You can please someone
who\'s a pain by adding their pet feature. And then you wind up
designing to those bullet points, not to humans. And that\'s how you
wind up with an overloaded site that\'s got 30 tabs across the top of
the screen.

Functional specs don\'t let you evolve, change,and reassess
-----------------------------------------------------------

A feature is signed off and agreed on. Even if you realize during
development that it\'s a bad idea, you\'re stuck with it. Specs don\'t
deal with the reality that once you start building something, everything
changes.

So what should you do in place of a spec? Go with a briefer alternative
that moves you toward something real. Write a one page story about what
the app needs to do. Use plain language and make it quick. If it takes
more than a page to explain it, then it\'s too complex. This process
shouldn\'t take more than one day.

Then begin building the interface --- the interface will be the
alternative to the functional spec. Draw some quick and simple paper
sketches. Then start coding it into html. Unlike paragraphs of text that
are open to alternate interpretations, interface designs are common
ground that everyone can agree on.

Confusion disappears when everyone starts using the same screens. Build
an interface everyone can start looking at, using, clicking through, and
\"feeling\" before you start worrying about back-end code. Get yourself
in front of the customer experience as much as possible.

Forget about locked-in specs. They force you to make big, key decisions
too early in the process. Bypass the spec phase and you\'ll keep change
cheap and stay flexible.

::: {.quote}
### Useless Specs

A \"spec\" is close to useless. I have never seen a spec that was both
big enough to be useful and accurate.

And I have seen lots of total crap work that was based on specs. It\'s
the single worst way to write software, because it by definition means
that the software was written to match theory, not reality.

---Linus Torvalds, creator of [Linux](http://www.linux.org/) (from:
[Linux: Linus On Specifications](http://kerneltrap.org/node/5725))
:::

::: {.quote}
### Fight the blockers

I found the people insisting on extensive requirements documents before
starting any design were really \'blockers\' just trying to slow the
process down (and usually people with nothing to contribute on design or
innovative thinking).

All our best work was done with a few concepts in our heads about
improving a site, doing a quick prototype (static), changing the design
a bit and then building a live prototype with real data. After kicking
the tires on this prototype, we usually had a real project in motion and
good result.

---Mark Gallagher, corporate intranet developer (from Signal vs. Noise)
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch11) \| [Next essay](ch11_Dont_Do_Dead_Documents.php)
:::
:::
