::: {.content}
It Just Doesn\'t Matter
=======================

Essentials only
---------------

Our favorite answer to the \"why didn\'t you do this or why didn\'t you
do that?\" question is always: \"Because it just doesn\'t matter.\" That
statement embodies what makes a product great. Figuring out what matters
and leaving out the rest.

When we launched Campfire we heard some of these questions from people
checking out the product for the first time:

*\"Why time stamps only every 5 minutes? Why not time stamp every chat
line?\"* Answer: It just doesn\'t matter. How often do you need to track
a conversation by the second or even the minute? Certainly not 95% of
the time. 5 minute stamps are sufficient because anything more specific
just doesn\'t matter.

*\"Why don\'t you allow bold or italic or colored formatting in the
chats?\"* Answer: It just doesn\'t matter. If you need to emphasize
something use the trusty caps lock key or toss a few \*\'s around the
word or phrase. Those solutions don\'t require additional software, tech
support, processing power, or have a learning curve. Besides, heavy
formatting in a simple text-based chat just doesn\'t matter.

*\"Why don\'t you show the total number of people in the room at a given
time?\"* Answer: It just doesn\'t matter. Everyone\'s name is listed so
you know who\'s there, but what difference does it make if there\'s 12
or 16 people? If it doesn\'t change your behavior, then it just doesn\'t
matter.

Would these things be nice to have? Sure. But are they essential? Do
they really matter? Nope. And that\'s why we left them out. The best
designers and the best programmers aren\'t the ones with the best
skills, or the nimblest fingers, or the ones who can rock and roll with
Photoshop or their environment of choice, they are the ones that can
determine what just doesn\'t matter. That\'s where the real gains are
made.

Most of the time you spend is wasted on things that just don\'t matter.
If you can cut out the work and thinking that just don\'t matter,
you\'ll achieve productivity you\'ve never imagined.

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch05) \| [Next essay](ch05_Start_With_No.php)
:::
:::
