::: {.content}
Forget Feature Requests
=======================

Let your customers remind you what\'s important
-----------------------------------------------

Customers want everything under the sun. They\'ll avalanche you with
feature requests. Just check out our product forums; The feature request
category always trumps the others by a wide margin.

We\'ll hear about \"this little extra feature\" or \"this can\'t be
hard\" or \"wouldn\'t it be easy to add this\" or \"it should take just
a few seconds to put it in\" or \"if you added this I\'d pay twice as
much\" and so on.

Of course we don\'t fault people for making requests. We encourage it
and we want to hear what they have to say. Most everything we add to our
products starts out as a customer request. But, as we mentioned before,
your first response should be a no. So what do you do with all these
requests that pour in? Where do you store them? **How do you manage
them? You don\'t. Just read them and then throw them away.**

Yup, read them, throw them away, and forget them. It sounds blasphemous
but the ones that are important will keep bubbling up anyway. Those are
the only ones you need to remember. Those are the truly essential ones.
Don\'t worry about tracking and saving each request that comes in. Let
your customers be your memory. If it\'s really worth remembering,
they\'ll remind you until you can\'t forget.

How did we come to this conclusion? When we first launched Basecamp we
tracked every major feature request on a Basecamp to-do list. When a
request was repeated by someone else we\'d update the list with an extra
hash mark (II or III or IIII, etc). We figured that one day we\'d review
this list and start working from the most requested features on down.

But the truth is we never looked at it again. We already knew what
needed to be done next because our customers constantly reminded us by
making the same requests over and over again. There was no need for a
list or lots of analysis because it was all happening in real time. You
can\'t forget what\'s important when you are reminded of it every day.

And one more thing: Just because x number of people request something,
doesn\'t mean you have to include it. Sometimes it\'s better to just say
no and maintain your vision for the product.

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch05) \| [Next essay](ch05_Hold_the_Mayo.php)
:::
:::
