::: {.content}
Race to Running Software
========================

Get something real up and running quickly
-----------------------------------------

Running software is the best way to build momentum, rally your team, and
flush out ideas that don\'t work. It should be your number one priority
from day one.

It\'s ok to do less, skip details, and take shortcuts in your process if
it\'ll lead to running software faster. Once you\'re there, you\'ll be
rewarded with a significantly more accurate perspective on how to
proceed. Stories, wireframes, even html mockups, are just
approximations. Running software is real.

With real, running software everyone gets closer to true understanding
and agreement. You avoid heated arguments over sketches and paragraphs
that wind up turning out not to matter anyway. You realize that parts
you thought were trivial are actually quite crucial.

Real things lead to real reactions. And that\'s how you get to the
truth.

::: {.quote}
### The Real Thing Leads to Agreement

When a group of different people set out to try and find out what is
harmonious\...their opinions about it will tend to converge if they are
mocking up full-scale, real stuff. Of course, if they\'re making
sketches or throwing out ideas, they won\'t agree. But, if you start
making the real thing, one tends to reach agreement.

---Christopher Alexander, Professor of Architecture\
(from [Contrasting Concepts of Harmony in
Architecture](http://www.katarxis3.com/Alexander_Eisenman_Debate.htm))
:::

::: {.quote}
### Get It Working ASAP

I do not think I\'ve ever been involved with a software project ---
large or small --- that was successful in terms of schedule, cost, or
functionality that started with a long period of planning and discussion
and no concurrent development. It is simply too easy, and sometimes fun,
to waste valuable time inventing features that turn out to be
unnecessary or unimplementable.

This applies at all levels of development and \"get something real up
and running\" is a fractal mantra. It doesn\'t just apply to the project
as a whole, it is at least equally applicable to the smaller-scale
development of components from which the application is built.

When there is a working implementation of a key component available,
developers want to understand how it will or won\'t work with their
piece of the application and will generally try to use it as soon as
they can. Even if the implementation isn\'t perfect or complete at
first, this early collaboration usually leads to well-defined interfaces
and features that do exactly what they need to.

---Matt Hamer, developer and product manager,
[Kinja](http://www.kinja.com/)
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch06) \| [Next essay](ch06_Rinse_and_Repeat.php)
:::
:::
