::: {.content}
Rinse and Repeat
================

Work in iterations
------------------

Don\'t expect to get it right the first time. Let the app grow and speak
to you. Let it morph and evolve. With web-based software there\'s no
need to ship perfection. Design screens, use them, analyze them, and
then start over again.

Instead of banking on getting everything right upfront, the iterative
process lets you continue to make informed decisions as you go along.
Plus, you\'ll get an active app up and running quicker since you\'re not
striving for perfection right out the gate. The result is real feedback
and real guidance on what requires your attention.

Iterations lead to liberation
-----------------------------

You don\'t need to aim for perfection on the first try if you know it\'s
just going to be done again later anyway. Knowing that you\'re going to
revisit issues is a great motivator to just get ideas out there to see
if they\'ll fly.

::: {.quote}
### Maybe you\'re smarter than me

Maybe you\'re a LOT smarter than me.

It\'s entirely possible. In fact, it\'s likely. However, if you\'re like
most people, then like me, you have trouble imagining what you can\'t
see and feel and touch.

Human beings are extremely good at responding to things in the
environment. We know how to panic when a tiger enters the room, and how
to clean up after a devastating flood. Unfortunately, we\'re terrible at
planning ahead, at understanding the ramifications of our actions and in
prioritizing the stuff that really matters.

Perhaps you are one of the few individuals who can keep it all in your
head. It doesn\'t really matter.

Web 2.0, the world where we start by assuming that everyone already uses
the web, allows smart developers to put this human frailty to work for
them. How? By allowing your users to tell you what they think while
there\'s still time to do something about it.

And that last sentence explains why you should develop this way and how
you might want to promote/launch.

Get your story straight. Make sure the pieces work. Then launch and
revise. No one is as smart as all of us.

---[Seth Godin](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/), author/entrepreneur
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch06) \| [Next
essay](ch06_From_Idea_to_Implementation.php)
:::
:::
