From Idea to Implementation
===========================

Go from brainstorm to sketches to HTML to coding
------------------------------------------------

Here\'s the process we use to Get Real:

Brainstorm
----------

Come up with ideas. What is this product going to do? For Basecamp, we
looked at our own needs. We wanted to post project updates. We wanted
clients to participate. We knew that projects had milestones. We wanted
to centralize archives so people could easily review old stuff. We
wanted to have a big-picture, bird\'s-eye view of what\'s going on with
all our projects. Together, those assumptions, and a few others, served
as our foundation.

This stage is not about nitty gritty details. This is about big
questions. What does the app need to do? How will we know when it\'s
useful? What exactly are we going to make? This is about high level
ideas, not pixel-level discussions. At this stage, those kinds of
details just aren\'t meaningful.

Paper sketches
--------------

Sketches are quick, dirty, and cheap and that\'s exactly how you want to
start out. Draw stuff. Scrawl stuff. Boxes, circles, lines. Get your
ideas out of your head and onto paper. The goal at this point should be
to convert concepts into rough interface designs. This step is all about
experimentation. There are no wrong answers.

Create HTML screens
-------------------

Make an html version of that feature (or section or flow, if it\'s more
appropriate). Get something real posted so everyone can see what it
looks like on screen.

For Basecamp, we first did the \"post a message\" screen, then the
\"edit a message\" screen, and it went on from there.

Don\'t write any programming code yet. Just build a mock-up in html and
css. Implementation comes later.

Code it
-------

When the mock-up looks good and demonstrates enough of the necessary
functionality, go ahead and plug in the programming code.

During this whole process remember to stay flexible and expect multiple
iterations. You should feel free to throw away the deliverable of any
particular step and start again if it turns out crappy. It\'s natural to
go through this cycle multiple times.
