::: {.content}
Test in the Wild
================

Test your app via real world usage
----------------------------------

There\'s no substitute for real people using your app in real ways. Get
real data. Get real feedback. Then improve based on that info.

Formal usability testing is too stiff. Lab settings don\'t reflect
reality. If you stand over someone\'s shoulder, you\'ll get some idea of
what\'s working or not but people generally don\'t perform well in front
of a camera. When someone else is watching, people are especially
careful not to make mistakes --- yet mistakes are exactly what you\'re
looking for.

Instead, release beta features to a select few inside the real
application itself. Have them use the beta features alongside the
released features. This will expose these features to people\'s real
data and real workflow. And that\'s where you\'ll get real results.

Further, don\'t have a release version and a beta version. They should
always be the same thing. A separate beta version will only get a
superficial walk through. The real version, with some beta features
sprinkled in, will get the full workout.

::: {.quote}
### The Beta Book

If developers are nervous releasing code, then publishers and authors
are terrified of releasing books. Once a book gets committed to paper,
it\'s seen as a big hairy deal to change it. (It really isn\'t, but
perception and memories of problems with old technologies still linger
in the industry.) So, publishers go to a lot of trouble (and expense) to
try to make books \"right\" before they\'re released.

When I wrote the book Agile Web Development With Rails, there was a lot
of pent up demand among developers: give us the book now --- we want to
learn about Rails. But I\'d fallen into the mindset of a publisher. \"It
isn\'t ready yet,\" I\'d say. But pressure from the community and some
egging on from David Heinemeier Hansson changed my mind. We released the
book in pdf form about 2 months before it was complete. The results were
spectacular. Not only did we sell a lot of books, but we got feedback
--- a lot of feedback. I set up an automated system to capture readers\'
comments, and in the end got almost 850 reports or typos, technical
errors, and suggestions for new content. Almost all made their way into
the final book.

It was a win-win: I got to deliver a much improved paper book, and the
community got early access to something they wanted. And if you\'re in a
competitive race, getting something out earlier helps folks commit to
you and not your competition.

---Dave Thomas, [The Pragmatic
Programmers](http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/)
:::

::: {.quote}
### Do it quick

1\. Decide if it\'s worth doing, and if so:

2\. Do it quick --- not perfect. just do it.

3\. Save it. upload it. publish it

4\. See what people think
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch06) \| [Next essay](ch06_Shrink_Your_Time.php)
:::
:::
