::: {.content}
Scale Later
===========

You don\'t have a scaling problem yet
-------------------------------------

*\"Will my app scale when millions of people start using it?\"*

Ya know what? Wait until that actually happens. If you\'ve got a huge
number of people overloading your system then huzzah! That\'s one swell
problem to have. The truth is the overwhelming majority of web apps are
never going to reach that stage. And even if you do start to get
overloaded it\'s usually not an allor-nothing issue. You\'ll have time
to adjust and respond to the problem. Plus, you\'ll have more real-world
data and benchmarks after you launch which you can use to figure out the
areas that need to be addressed.

For example, we ran Basecamp on a single server for the first year.
Because we went with such a simple setup, it only took a week to
implement. We didn\'t start with a cluster of 15 boxes or spend months
worrying about scaling.

Did we experience any problems? A few. But we also realized that most of
the problems we feared, like a brief slowdown, really weren\'t that big
of a deal to customers. As long as you keep people in the loop, and are
honest about the situation, they\'ll understand. In retrospect, we\'re
quite glad we didn\'t delay launch for months in order to create \"the
perfect setup.\"

In the beginning, make building a solid core product your priority
instead of obsessing over scalability and server farms. **Create a great
app and then worry about what to do once it\'s wildly successful.**
Otherwise you may waste energy, time, and money fixating on something
that never even happens.

Believe it or not, the bigger problem isn\'t scaling, it\'s getting to
the point where you have to scale. Without the first problem you won\'t
have the second.

::: {.quote}
### You have to revisit anyway

The fact is that everyone has scalability issues, no one can deal with
their service going from zero to a few million users without revisiting
almost every aspect of their design and architecture.

---Dare Obasanjo, [Microsoft](Scaling%20Up%20and%20Startups) (from
[Scaling Up and
Startups](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=067a2eb8-85c0-4886-b35f-f32b1a46eab9))
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch04) \| [Next
essay](ch04_Make_Opinionated_Software.php)
:::
:::
