::: {.content}
Publicize Your Screwups
=======================

Get bad news out there and out of the way
-----------------------------------------

If something goes wrong, tell people. Even if they never saw it in the
first place.

For example, Basecamp was down once for a few hours in the middle of the
night. 99% of our customers never knew, but we still posted an
\"unexpected downtime\" notice to our Everything Basecamp blog. We
thought our customers deserved to know.

Here\'s a sample of what we post when something goes wrong: \"We
apologize for the downtime this morning --- we had some database issues
which caused major slowdowns and downtimes for some people. We\'ve fixed
the problem and are taking steps to make sure this doesn\'t happen
again\...Thanks for your patience and, once again, we\'re sorry for the
downtime.\"

Be as open, honest, and transparent as possible. Don\'t keep secrets or
hide behind spin. An informed customer is your best customer. Plus,
you\'ll realize that most of your screwups aren\'t even that bad in the
minds of your customers. Customers are usually happy to give you a
little bit of breathing room as long as they know you\'re being honest
with them.

A side note about delivering news, bad and good: When bad news comes,
get it all out in the open at once. Good news, on the other hand, should
be trickled out slowly. If you can prolong the good vibes, do it.

::: {.quote}
### Be Swift, Direct, and Honest

It may sound strange, but the best-case scenario is when the company
itself reports the bad news. This is proactive and prevents your company
from being put in a weakened, defensive position.

---Greg Sherwin, Vice President of Application Technology,
[CNET](http://www.cnet.com/), and Emily Avila, Principal, [Calypso
Communications](http://www.calypsocom.com/) (from [A Primer for Crisis
PR](http://www.clickz.com/showPage.html?page=836871))
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch14) \| [Next essay](ch15_One_Month_Tuneup.php)
:::
:::

::: {.content}
Feel The Pain
=============

Tear down the walls between support and development
---------------------------------------------------

In the restaurant business, there\'s a world of difference between those
working in the kitchen and those out front who deal with customers.
It\'s important for both sides to understand and empathize with the
other. That\'s why cooking schools and restaurants will often have chefs
work out front as waiters so the kitchen staff can interact with
customers and see what it\'s actually like on the front lines.

A lot of software developers have a similar split. Designers and
programmers work in the \"kitchen\" while support handles the customers.
Unfortunately, that means the software chefs never get to hear what
customers are actually saying. That\'s problematic because listening to
customers is the best way to get in tune with your product\'s strengths
and weaknesses.

The solution? Avoid building walls between your customers and the
development/design team. **Don\'t outsource customer support to a call
center or third party.** Do it yourself. You, and your whole team,
should know what your customers are saying. When your customers are
annoyed, you need to know about it. You need to hear their complaints.
You need to get annoyed too.

At 37signals, all of our support emails are answered personally by the
people who actually build the product. Why? First off, it provides
better support for customers. They\'re getting a response straight from
the brain of someone who built the app. Also, it keeps us in touch with
the people who use our products and the problems they\'re encountering.
When they\'re frustrated, we\'re frustrated. We can say, \"I feel your
pain\" and actually mean it.

It can be tempting to rely on statistical analysis to reveal your
trouble spots. But stats aren\'t the same as voices. You need to
eliminate as many buffers as possible between you and the real voices of
your customers.

The front lines are where the action is. Get up there. Have your chefs
work as waiters. Read customer emails, hear their frustrations, listen
to their suggestions and learn from them.

::: {.quote}
### Cut Out the Middle Man

Almost all Campaign Monitor development, support and marketing are
performed by two people. Even if we\'re forced to expand the team,
we\'ll never separate support from development. By personally responding
to every request, we force ourselves to sit in our customers shoes and
see things from their perspective.

It\'s important to understand why your customer needs something, not
just what it is they need. That context often has a direct impact on how
we design something. Cut out the middle man. It\'s much easier to give
your customers what they want when your ears are that close to the
ground.

I\'ve discussed this setup with loads of people and the first response
is often \"shouldn\'t you just hire a junior to handle your support?\"
Put yourself in your customer\'s shoes. If you want your steak cooked
just how you like it, would you rather talk to the bus boy or the chef
that\'s actually cooking it?

---David Greiner, founder, [Campaign
Monitor](http://www.campaignmonitor.com/)
:::

::: {.next}
[Table of contents](toc.php) \| [Essay list for this
chapter](toc.php#ch14) \| [Next essay](ch14_Zero_Training.php)
:::
:::
